
== Process of address profile and address instance interchange

=== Address profiles

==== General

.Lifecycle of an address profile
image::images/png/Model__AddressProfileStates__AddressProfileLifeCycle_10.png[]

==== Creating interchange address profiles

Address profiles are created by publishers.

==== Publishing address profiles

Publishers distribute their address profile to others through exchange
or a registry.

==== Updating address profiles

Publishers can update an address profile and re-distribute it by
publishing using a new version number that supersedes the previously
published one.

==== Using address profiles

Applications retrieve suitable profiles to:

* render input forms for address input according to the
profile-specified form template; or

* display addresses according to the profile-specified display template.

Applications should consider the validity period of an address profile,
and should periodically check with the publisher (or a registry that
the publisher distributes via) the latest version of the address
profile.

==== Retiring address profiles

Publisher can indicate the validity period of an address profile in the
profile itself, which if the validity end date has passed, would indicate
that the profile is retired.

To immediately retire an address profile, the publisher could
distribute a new version of the address profile with an expired
validity period.



=== Address instances

==== Creating an address instance

This section describes how an address instance is created. The desired
address profile must be already retrieved for creating an address
instance that conforms to it.

Typically, a user enters an address through an application interface
that implements an input format that conforms to the address profile's
form template, such as an application that runs on an operating system
or an Internet application. Such input interface may or may not provide
a graphical form.

Conforming applications should not expect general users to be able to
input an address with a fully-deduced structure. Immediately after
input no capabilities are marked on the address instance.

==== Sending an address instance

After a user inputs an address into a structured address form, the user
submits this address to the designated recipient, which could be an
e-retailer, an electronic business card, or a calendar event.

==== Displaying an address instance

The recipient or service that receives an address instance either
already has the interchange address profile or should obtain the address
profile definition. With the interchange address profile, it could then
display the address instance according to the address profile's
display template.

==== Improving quality of an address instance

The recipient or service could process the address, such as to further
clean up the address by improving the conformance level by fully
deducing the address structure, which would add an address capability
"https://standards.iso.org/19160/-6/capabilities/specified" to the
address instance.

To ensure that the resulting address instance with a fully-specified
structure is correct, the processor may wish to confirm with the user
the resulting address, such as in the case where the address is used
for shipping information. This would add the AddressCapability
"https://standards.iso.org/19160/-6/capabilities/confirmed" to the
address instance.

==== Verifying an address instance

The recipient or service could further validate the address, such as
with a postal or addressing authority. This would add the
AddressCapability "https://verifyingauthority/verified" to the address
instance written by the verifying authority.

==== Adding associated data to an address instance

A processor of an address instance could add extra information such as
delivery instructions or routes as associated data.

If the user already has a verified, structured address, then the
service could save the effort for verifying the address. Custom
address capabilities could be added into the address instance.

==== Discarding an address instance

When a service no longer needs the address, it should be disposed of.
